##front [BBC TV Film Leader]
L7-cue_0b
##front Credits: Cornell University U.S.A., The Character of Physical Law, Professor Richard Feynman gives the Messenger Lectures
L7-cue_0
##Title Seeking New Laws
L7-cue_1
#What I want to talk to you about tonight is, strictly speaking,
L7-cue_2
not on the character of physical laws, because one might imagine, at least, that one’s talking
L7-cue_3
about nature when one’s talking about the character of physical laws.
L7-cue_4
But I don’t want to talk about nature, but rather how we stand relative to nature now.
L7-cue_5
I want to tell you what we think we know, and what there is to guess,
L7-cue_6
and how one goes about guessing it.
L7-cue_7
#Someone suggested that it would be ideal if, as I went along, I would slowly explain how
L7-cue_8
to guess the laws, and then create a new law for you right
L7-cue_9
as I went along-I don’t know whether I’ll be able to do that.
L7-cue_10
#But first, I want to tell about what the present situation is—what it is
L7-cue_11
that we know about the physics.
L7-cue_12
You think that I’ve told you everything already,
L7-cue_13
because in all the lectures I told you all the great principles that are known.
L7-cue_14
But the principles must be principles about something.
L7-cue_15
The principle that I just spoke of,
L7-cue_16
the conservation of energy, is the energy of something.
L7-cue_17
Quantum mechanical laws are quantum mechanical principles about something.
L7-cue_18
All these principles added together still doesn’t tell us what the content is
L7-cue_19
of the nature—that is, what we’re talking about—so I will tell you a little bit
L7-cue_20
about the stuff on which all these principles are supposed to have been working.
L7-cue_21
#First of all, is matter—and, remarkably enough, all matter is the same:
L7-cue_22
the matter of which the stars are made is known to be the same as the matter on the earth
L7-cue_23
by the character of the light that’s emitted by those stars—they give a kind of fingerprint
L7-cue_24
by which you can tell there’s the same kind of atoms in the stars as on the earth;
L7-cue_25
the same kind of atoms appear to be in living creatures
L7-cue_26
as in non—living creatures—frogs are made out of the same goop,
L7-cue_27
in different arrangement, than rocks.
L7-cue_28
#So that makes our problem simpler: we have nothing but atoms, all the same, everywhere.
L7-cue_29
The atoms all seem to be made from the same general constitution: they have a nucleus,
L7-cue_30
and around the nucleus there are electrons.
L7-cue_31
So I begin to list the parts of the world that we think we know about.
L7-cue_32
One of them is electrons, which are the particles on the outside of the atoms;
L7-cue_33
then there are the nuclei, but those are understood today as being themselves made
L7-cue_34
up of two other things, which are called neutrons and protons—two particles.
L7-cue_35
#Incidentally, we have to see the stars and see the atoms and they emit light,
L7-cue_36
and the light is described by particles themselves, which are called photons.
L7-cue_37
#And at the beginning we spoke about gravitation, and if the quantum theory is right,
L7-cue_38
then the gravitation should have some kind of waves which behave like particles, too,
L7-cue_39
and they call those gravitons—if you don’t believe
L7-cue_40
in that, you just read gravity here, say.
L7-cue_41
#Now, finally, I did mention that in what’s called beta decay,
L7-cue_42
in which a neutron can disintegrate into a proton and an electron
L7-cue_43
and a neutrino (or really an antineutrino), there’s another particle here, a neutrino.
L7-cue_44
In addition to all the particles that I’m listing, there are, of course,
L7-cue_45
all the antiparticles—but that’s just a quick statement,
L7-cue_46
and it takes care of doubling the number
L7-cue_47
of particles immediately—but there’s no complications.
L7-cue_48
#Now, with the particles that I’ve listed here—all of the low energy phenomena,
L7-cue_49
all of them, in fact, ordinary phenomena that happen everywhere in the universe as far
L7-cue_50
as we know (with the exception of here and there some very high energy particle does something
L7-cue_51
or in a laboratory we’ve been able to do some peculiar things—but if we leave
L7-cue_52
out those special cases)—all ordinary phenomena are presumably explained by the action
L7-cue_53
and the motions of these things, these kind of things.
L7-cue_54
#For example, life itself is supposedly made—I mean, [is] understandable
L7-cue_55
in principle—from the action of movements of atoms, and those atoms are made
L7-cue_56
out of neutrons, protons, and electrons.
L7-cue_57
I must immediately say that when we say we understand it "in principle,"
L7-cue_58
I only mean that we think we would—if we could figure everything out—find
L7-cue_59
that there’s nothing new in physics to be discovered in order
L7-cue_60
to understand the phenomena of life.
L7-cue_61
#Or, for instance, for the fact that the stars emit energy—solar energy,
L7-cue_62
or stellar energy—is presumably also understood in terms
L7-cue_63
of nuclear reactions among these particles, and so on.
L7-cue_64
All kinds of details of the way atoms behave are accurately described with this kind
L7-cue_65
of model—at least as far as we know, at present.
L7-cue_66
In fact, I can say that in this range of phenomena today, as far as I know,
L7-cue_67
there are no phenomena that we are sure cannot be explained this way,
L7-cue_68
or even that there’s deep mystery about.
L7-cue_69
#This wasn’t always possible.
L7-cue_70
There was, for instance, for a while a phenomenon called superconductivity—there still
L7-cue_71
is the phenomenon—which is that metals conduct electricity
L7-cue_72
without resistance at low temperatures.
L7-cue_73
It was not at first obvious that this was a consequence of the known laws
L7-cue_74
with these particles, but it turns out that it has been though
L7-cue_75
through carefully enough that’s it’s seen, in fact, to be a consequence of known laws.
L7-cue_76
#There are other phenomena, such as extrasensory perception, which cannot be explained
L7-cue_77
by this known knowledge of physics here—and it is interesting, however,
L7-cue_78
that that phenomenon has not been well established,
L7-cue_79
that we cannot guarantee that it’s there.
L7-cue_80
If it could be demonstrated, but of course that would prove that the physics is incomplete,
L7-cue_81
and therefore it’s extremely interesting to physicists whether it’s right or wrong.
L7-cue_82
Many, many experiments exist which show it doesn’t work.
L7-cue_83
The same goes for astrological influences: if it were true that the stars could affect the day
L7-cue_84
that it was good to go to the dentist (in America we have that kind of astrology),
L7-cue_85
then it would be wrong—the physics theory would be wrong—
L7-cue_86
because there’s no mechanism understandable in principle
L7-cue_87
from these things that would make it go.
L7-cue_88
That’s the reason that there’s some skepticism among scientists with regard to those ideas.
L7-cue_89
#On the other hand, in the case of hypnotism, at first it looked
L7-cue_90
like that also would be impossible, when it was described incompletely,
L7-cue_91
but now that it’s known better, it is realized that it is not absolutely impossible
L7-cue_92
that hypnosis could occur through normal physiological
L7-cue_93
but unknown processes-it doesn’t require some special new kind of force.
L7-cue_94
#Now, today, although the knowledge of a theory of what goes on outside the nucleus
L7-cue_95
of the atom seems precise and complete enough (in the sense that, given enough time,
L7-cue_96
we can calculate anything as accurately as it can be measured)—it turns out that the forces
L7-cue_97
between neutrons and protons, which constitute the nucleus, are not so completely known,
L7-cue_98
and are not understood at all well.
L7-cue_99
What I mean by that is, that we cannot today—we do not today—understand the forces
L7-cue_100
between neutrons and protons to the extent that if you wanted me to, and gave me enough time
L7-cue_101
and computers, I could calculate exactly the energy levels of carbon, or something like that,
L7-cue_102
because we don’t know enough about that; although we can do the corresponding thing
L7-cue_103
for the energy levels of the outside, electrons of the atom,
L7-cue_104
we cannot for the nuclei—so the nuclear forces are still not understood very well.
L7-cue_105
#Now, in order to find out more about that, experimenters have gone on,
L7-cue_106
and they have to study phenomena at very high energy, where they hit neutrons
L7-cue_107
and protons together at very high energy, and produce peculiar things—and
L7-cue_108
by studying those peculiar things,
L7-cue_109
we hope to understand better the forces between neutrons and protons.
L7-cue_110
#Well, a Pandora’s Box has been opened by these experiments, although all we really wanted was
L7-cue_111
to get a better idea of the forces between neutrons and protons:
L7-cue_112
when we hit these things together hard,
L7-cue_113
we discover that there are more particles in the world.
L7-cue_114
As a matter of fact, in this column,
L7-cue_115
there was (plus) over four dozen other particles have been dredged
L7-cue_116
up in an attempt to understand these.
L7-cue_117
These four dozen other are put in this column because they’re very relevant
L7-cue_118
to the neutron-proton column: they interact very much with neutrons and protons,
L7-cue_119
and they’ve got something to do with the force between neutrons
L7-cue_120
and protons-so we’ve got a little bit too much.
L7-cue_121
#In addition to that, while the dredge was digging up all this mud over here,
L7-cue_122
it picked up a couple of pieces that are not wanted, and are irrelevant
L7-cue_123
to the problem of nuclear forces.
L7-cue_124
One of them is called a mu meson, or muon, and the other was a neutrino which goes
L7-cue_125
with it-there are two kinds of neutrinos: one which goes with the electron,
L7-cue_126
and one which goes with the mu meson.
L7-cue_127
#Incidentally, most amazingly, all the laws of the muon and its neutrino are now known,
L7-cue_128
as far as we can tell experimentally; the laws is: they behave precisely the same
L7-cue_129
as the electron and its neutrino, except that the mass of the mu meson is 207 times heavier
L7-cue_130
than an electron—and that’s the only difference known
L7-cue_131
between those objects—but it’s rather curious,
L7-cue_132
[and] I can’t say any more, because nobody knows any more.
L7-cue_133
#Now, four dozen other particles is a frightening array—plus the antiparticles—is a frightening
L7-cue_134
array of things, but it turns out they’ve got various names—mesons, pions, kaons, lambdas,
L7-cue_135
sigmas—it doesn’t make any difference; four dozen particles,
L7-cue_136
there’re going to be a lot of names!
L7-cue_137
#But it turns out that these particles come in families, so it helps us a little bit.
L7-cue_138
(Actually, some of these so—called particles last such a short time
L7-cue_139
that there are debates whether it’s in fact possible to define their very existence
L7-cue_140
to whether it’s a particle or not, but I won’t enter into that debate.)
L7-cue_141
#In order to illustrate the family idea, I take the two—part cases of a neutron and a proton.
L7-cue_142
The neutron and the proton have the same mass within a tenth of a percent or so: one is 1836;
L7-cue_143
the other is 1839 times as heavy as an electron—roughly, if I remember the numbers.
L7-cue_144
But the thing that’s very remarkable is this:
L7-cue_145
that for the nuclear forces (which are the strong forces inside the nucleus),
L7-cue_146
the force between a pair of protons—two protons—is the same as between a proton
L7-cue_147
and a neutron, and is the same again between a neutron and a neutron.
L7-cue_148
In other words, for the strong nuclear forces, you can’t tell a proton from a neutron.
L7-cue_149
#Or, a symmetry law: neutrons may be substituted for protons
L7-cue_150
without changing anything—provided you’re only talking about the strong forces.
L7-cue_151
If you’re talking about electrical forces, oh, no: if you change a neutron
L7-cue_152
for a proton you have a terrible difference, because the proton carries electrical charge
L7-cue_153
and a neutron doesn’t, so by electrical measurement immediately you can see the
L7-cue_154
difference between a proton and a neutron.
L7-cue_155
#So this symmetry that you can replace neutrons
L7-cue_156
by protons is what we call an approximate symmetry: it’s right for the strong interactions
L7-cue_157
and nuclear forces, but it’s not right, in some deep sense of nature,
L7-cue_158
because it doesn’t work for the electricity.
L7-cue_159
This is called a partial symmetry, and we have to struggle with these partial symmetries.
L7-cue_160
#Now, the families have been extended: it turns out that the substitution neutron—
L7-cue_161
proton can be extended to substitution over a wider range
L7-cue_162
of particles, but the accuracy is still lower.
L7-cue_163
You see that neutrons can always be substituted for protons is only approximate;
L7-cue_164
it’s not true for electricity, and that the widest substitutions
L7-cue_165
that have been discovered are legitimate is still more poor—a very poor symmetry,
L7-cue_166
not very accurate.
L7-cue_167
#But they have helped to gather the particles into families, and thus to locate places
L7-cue_168
where particles are missing, and to help to discover new ones.
L7-cue_169
This kind of game, of roughly guessing at family relations, and so on,
L7-cue_170
is illustrative of the kind of preliminary sparring which one does
L7-cue_171
with nature before really discovering some deep and fundamental law,
L7-cue_172
before you get to deeper discoveries.
L7-cue_173
#Examples are very important in the previous history of science.
L7-cue_174
For instance, Mendeleyev’s discovery for the periodic table for the elements is analogous
L7-cue_175
to this game: it is the first step, but the complete description of the reason
L7-cue_176
for the periodic table came much later, with atomic theory.
L7-cue_177
#In the same way, organization of the knowledge of nuclear levels and characteristics was made
L7-cue_178
by Maria Mayer and Jensen, in what they called the shell model of nuclei, some years ago.
L7-cue_179
And it’s an analogous game, in which a reduction
L7-cue_180
of the complexity is made by some proximate guesses.
L7-cue_181
That’s the way it stands today.
L7-cue_182
#In addition to these things, then we have all these principles that we were talking
L7-cue_183
about before: principle of relativity; that things must behave quantum mechanically,
L7-cue_184
and—combining that with the relativity—that all conservation laws must be local.
L7-cue_185
And so when we put all these principles together,
L7-cue_186
we discover there are too many—they’re inconsistent with each other.
L7-cue_187
It seems as if—if we add quantum mechanics plus relativity plus the proposition
L7-cue_188
that everything has to be local, plus a number of tacit assumptions which we can’t really find
L7-cue_189
out because we’re prejudiced; we don’t see what they are, and it’s hard to say what they are—
L7-cue_190
adding it all together we get inconsistency, because we really get infinity
L7-cue_191
for various things when we calculate them.
L7-cue_192
#Well, if we get infinity, how will we ever agree that this agrees with nature?
L7-cue_193
It turns out that it’s possible to sweep the infinities under the rug
L7-cue_194
by a certain crude skill, and temporarily we’re able to keep on calculating.
L7-cue_195
But the fact of the matter is, that all the principles that I told you up until now,
L7-cue_196
if put together, plus some tacit assumptions that we don’t know, gives trouble:
L7-cue_197
they cannot [be] mutually consistent—nice problem.
L7-cue_198
#An example of the tacit assumptions that we don’t know what the significance is,
L7-cue_199
is such proposition as the following: if you calculate the chance
L7-cue_200
for every possibility-there’s 50 percent probability this will happen,
L7-cue_201
25 percent that will happen—it should add up to one;
L7-cue_202
we think that if you add all alternatives you should get 100 percent probability.
L7-cue_203
#That seems reasonable, but reasonable things are where the trouble always is.
L7-cue_204
#Another proposition is that the energy
L7-cue_205
of something must always be positive; it can’t be negative.
L7-cue_206
Another proposition that is probably added
L7-cue_207
in in order—before we get inconsistency—is what’s called causality, which is something
L7-cue_208
like the idea that effects cannot precede their causes.
L7-cue_209
#Actually, no one has made a model in which you disregard the proposition about the probability,
L7-cue_210
or you disregard the causality, which is also consistent
L7-cue_211
with quantum mechanics, relativity, locality and so on.
L7-cue_212
We really do not know exactly what it is we’re assuming
L7-cue_213
that gives us the infinite—the difficulty producing infinities.
L7-cue_214
#Okay, now that’s the present situation.
L7-cue_215
Now, I’m going to discuss how we would look for a new law.
L7-cue_216
In general, we look for a new law by the following process.
L7-cue_217
#First, we guess it.
L7-cue_218
Then we-don’t laugh, that’s really true.
L7-cue_219
Then we compute the consequences of the guess to see if this is right—if this law
L7-cue_220
that we guessed is right—we see what it would imply.
L7-cue_221
And then we compare those computation results to nature—or, we say compare to experiment
L7-cue_222
or experience—compare it directly with observation to see if it works.
L7-cue_223
#If it disagrees with experiment, it’s wrong.
L7-cue_224
#In that simple statement, is the key to science:
L7-cue_225
it doesn’t make any difference how beautiful your guess is;
L7-cue_226
it doesn’t make any difference how smart you are, who made the guess,
L7-cue_227
or what his name is-if it disagrees with experiment,
L7-cue_228
it’s wrong; that’s all there is to it.
L7-cue_229
#It’s true, however, that one has to check a little bit to make sure that it’s wrong,
L7-cue_230
because someone who did the experiment may have reported incorrectly,
L7-cue_231
or there may have been some feature in the experiment that wasn’t noticed,
L7-cue_232
like some kind of dirt and so on—you have to obviously check.
L7-cue_233
#Furthermore, the man who computed the consequences—[it] even may have been the same
L7-cue_234
man that made the guesses—may have made some mistake in the analysis.
L7-cue_235
Those are obvious remarks.
L7-cue_236
#So when I say, if it disagrees with experiment it’s wrong, I mean,
L7-cue_237
after the experiment has been checked, the calculations have been checked,
L7-cue_238
and the thing has been rubbed back and forth a few times to make sure
L7-cue_239
that the consequences are logical consequences from the guess and that, in fact,
L7-cue_240
it disagrees with a very carefully checked experiment.
L7-cue_241
#This will give you somewhat a wrong impression of science; it means that we keep
L7-cue_242
on guessing possibilities and comparing them to experiment,
L7-cue_243
and this is to put the experiment on, really a little bit weak position.
L7-cue_244
It turns out that the experimenters have a certain individual character:
L7-cue_245
they like to do experiments even if nobody’s guessed yet.
L7-cue_246
#So it’s very often true that experiments in a region
L7-cue_247
in which people know the theorist doesn’t know anything—nobody’s guessed yet—for instance,
L7-cue_248
we may have guessed all these laws, but we don’t know whether they really work
L7-cue_249
at very high energy, because it’s just a good guess that they work at high energy—
L7-cue_250
so the experimenter says, "Let’s try higher energy"—
L7-cue_251
and therefore experiment produces trouble every once in a while.
L7-cue_252
That is, it produces a discovery that one of the things that we thought of is wrong,
L7-cue_253
so we-what I would say is, experiment can produce unexpected results,
L7-cue_254
and that starts us guessing again.
L7-cue_255
#For instance, an unexpected result is the mu meson and its neutrino, which was not guessed
L7-cue_256
at by anybody whatever before it was discovered, and still nobody has any method of guessing
L7-cue_257
by which this is a natural thing.
L7-cue_258
Now, you see of course, that with this method we can disprove any definite theory:
L7-cue_259
[if] you have a definite theory, a real guess from which you can really compute consequences
L7-cue_260
which could be compared to experiment, then in principle we can get rid
L7-cue_261
of any theory-you can always prove any definite theory wrong.
L7-cue_262
#Notice, however, we never prove it right.
L7-cue_263
Suppose that you invent a good guess, calculate the consequences,
L7-cue_264
and discover that every consequence that you calculate agrees with experiment.
L7-cue_265
Your theory is then right?
L7-cue_266
#No, it is simply not proved wrong, because in the future there could be a wider range
L7-cue_267
of experiments, you could compute a wider range of consequences,
L7-cue_268
and you may discover then that the thing is wrong.
L7-cue_269
That’s why a laws like Newton’s laws for the motion of planets last such a long time:
L7-cue_270
he guessed the law of gravitation, calculated all kinds of consequences for the solar system,
L7-cue_271
and so on, compared them to experiment,
L7-cue_272
and it took several hundred years before the slight error
L7-cue_273
of the motion of Mercury was developed.
L7-cue_274
#During all that time, the theory had been failed to be proved wrong, and could be taken
L7-cue_275
to be temporarily right-but it can never be proved right,
L7-cue_276
because tomorrow’s experiment may succeed in proving what you thought was right, wrong.
L7-cue_277
So we never are right; we can only be sure we’re wrong.
L7-cue_278
#However, it’s rather remarkable that we can last so long—I mean,
L7-cue_279
have some idea which will last so long.
L7-cue_280
Incidentally, some people—one of the ways of stopping the science would be
L7-cue_281
to only do experiments in the region where you know the laws.
L7-cue_282
But the experimenters search most diligently, and with the greatest effort,
L7-cue_283
in exactly those places where it seems most likely that we can prove the theories wrong.
L7-cue_284
#In other words, we’re trying to prove ourselves wrong as quickly possible,
L7-cue_285
because only in that way do we find progress.
L7-cue_286
For example, today, among the ordinary low—energy phenomena,
L7-cue_287
we don’t know where to look for trouble—we think everything’s all right—and
L7-cue_288
so there isn’t any particular big program looking for trouble
L7-cue_289
in nuclear reactions or in superconductivity.
L7-cue_290
#I must say I’m concentrating on discovering fundamental laws: there’s a whole range
L7-cue_291
of physics which is interesting, and understanding at another level these phenomena
L7-cue_292
like superconductivity and nuclear reactions, but I’m talking about discovering trouble,
L7-cue_293
something wrong with the fundamental law.
L7-cue_294
#Nobody knows where to look there; therefore, all the experiments today are—in this field
L7-cue_295
of finding out the new law—are at high energy.
L7-cue_296
#I must also point out to you that you cannot prove a vague theory wrong.
L7-cue_297
If the guess that you make is poorly expressed and rather vague, and the method that you use
L7-cue_298
for figuring out the consequences is rather a little vague—you’re not sure, and you just say,
L7-cue_299
"I think everything’s because it’s all due to moogles, and moogles do this and that,
L7-cue_300
more or less, so I can sort of explain how this works"— then you see that that theory is "good"
L7-cue_301
because it can’t be proved wrong.
L7-cue_302
#If the process of computing the consequences is indefinite,
L7-cue_303
then with a little skill any experimental result can be made
L7-cue_304
to look like an expected consequence.
L7-cue_305
You’re probably familiar with that in other fields.
L7-cue_306
#For example, A hates his mother.
L7-cue_307
The reason is, of course, because she didn’t caress him
L7-cue_308
or love him enough when he was a child.
L7-cue_309
Actually, if you investigate, you find out that as a matter of fact,
L7-cue_310
she did love him very much, and everything was all right.
L7-cue_311
#Well, then it’s because she was overindulgent when he was young.
L7-cue_312
So by having a vague theory, it’s possible to get either result.
L7-cue_313
#Now wait, now the cure for this one is the following: it would be possible to say,
L7-cue_314
if it were possible to state ahead of time, how much love is not enough,
L7-cue_315
and how much love is overindulgent exactly, then there would be a perfectly legitimate theory
L7-cue_316
against which you can make tests.
L7-cue_317
It is usually said, when this is pointed out, how much love is, and so on, "Oh,
L7-cue_318
you’re dealing with psychological matters, where things can’t be defined so precisely!"
L7-cue_319
Yes, but then you can’t claim to know anything about it.
L7-cue_320
#Now, we have examples, you’ll be horrified to hear, in physics of exactly the same kind.
L7-cue_321
We have these approximate symmetries; [it] works something like this:
L7-cue_322
you have approximate symmetry, you suppose it’s perfect—calculate the consequences (it’s easy
L7-cue_323
if you suppose it’s perfect)—and compare with experiment.
L7-cue_324
Of course, it doesn’t agree—because, of course,
L7-cue_325
the symmetry you’re supposed to expect is approximate.
L7-cue_326
So if the agreement is pretty good, you say, "Nice!"
L7-cue_327
If the agreement is very poor, you say,
L7-cue_328
"Well this particular thing must be especially sensitive to the failure of the symmetry."
L7-cue_329
#Now, you laugh, but we had to make progress in that way: in the beginning,
L7-cue_330
when the subject is first new, and these particles are new
L7-cue_331
to us—this jockeying around—this is a feeling way of guessing at the result.
L7-cue_332
And this is the beginning of any science.
L7-cue_333
#The same thing is true of psychology as it is of the symmetry propositions in the physics.
L7-cue_334
So don’t laugh too hard; it’s necessary in the very beginning to be very careful.
L7-cue_335
It’s easy to fall over the deep end by this kind of vague theory: it’s hard to prove it wrong;
L7-cue_336
it takes a certain skill and experience to not walk off the plank on the game.
L7-cue_337
In this process, of guessing—computing consequences,
L7-cue_338
and comparing to experiment—we can get stuck at various stages.
L7-cue_339
#For example, we may, in the guess stage, get stuck: we have no ideas; we can’t guess an idea.
L7-cue_340
Or we may get in the computing stage stuck.
L7-cue_341
For example, Yukawa guessed an idea for the nuclear forces in 1934,
L7-cue_342
[but] nobody could compute the consequences because the mathematics was too difficult.
L7-cue_343
Therefore, they couldn’t compare it with experiments successfully,
L7-cue_344
and the theory has remained, for a long time—until we discovered all his junk,
L7-cue_345
and this junk was not contemplated by Yukawa, and therefore it’s undoubtedly not as simple,
L7-cue_346
at least, as the way Yukawa did it.
L7-cue_347
#Another place you can get stuck is at the experimental end.
L7-cue_348
For example, the quantum theory of gravitation is very—going very slowly,
L7-cue_349
if at all—because there’s no use: all the experiments
L7-cue_350
that you can do are—never involve quantum mechanics and gravitation at the same time,
L7-cue_351
because the gravity force is so weak compared to electrical forces.
L7-cue_352
#Now, I want to concentrate from now on, because I’m a theoretical physicist—I’m more delighted
L7-cue_353
with this end of the problem, as to what goes—how do you make the guesses.
L7-cue_354
Now it’s strictly, as I said before, not of any importance where the guess comes from;
L7-cue_355
it’s only important that it should agree with experiment,
L7-cue_356
and that it should be as definite as possible.
L7-cue_357
#But you say, "Then it’s very simple: we set up a machine, a great computing machine,
L7-cue_358
which has a random wheel in it that makes a succession of guesses.
L7-cue_359
Each time it guesses a hypothesis about how nature should work,
L7-cue_360
[it] computes immediately the consequences and makes a comparison to a list
L7-cue_361
of experimental results it has at the other end."
L7-cue_362
In other words, guessing is a dumb man’s job.
L7-cue_363
#Actually, it’s quite the opposite, and I will try to explain why.
L7-cue_364
The first problem is how to start.
L7-cue_365
You say, "I’ll start with all the known principles."
L7-cue_366
But the principles that are all known are inconsistent
L7-cue_367
with each other, so something has to be removed.
L7-cue_368
So we get a lot of letters from people—we’re always getting letters from people
L7-cue_369
who are insisting that we ought to make holes in our guesses as follows—you see,
L7-cue_370
you make a hole to make room for a new guess: somebody says, "Do you know,
L7-cue_371
you people always say space is continuous, but how do you know,
L7-cue_372
when you get to a small enough dimension, that there really are enough points
L7-cue_373
in between-[that] it isn’t just a lot of dots separated by little distances?"
L7-cue_374
#Or they say, "You know those quantum mechanical amplitudes you just told me about,
L7-cue_375
they’re so complicated and absurd, what makes you think those are right?
L7-cue_376
Maybe they aren’t right."
L7-cue_377
I get a lot of letters with such content, but I must say that such remarks are perfectly obvious
L7-cue_378
and are perfectly clear to anybody who’s working on this problem,
L7-cue_379
and it doesn’t do any good to point this out.
L7-cue_380
#The problem is, not what might be wrong,
L7-cue_381
but what might be substituted precisely in place of it.
L7-cue_382
If you say anything precise—for example, in the case of a continuous space,
L7-cue_383
suppose the precise proposition is that space really consists of a series of dots only,
L7-cue_384
and the space between them doesn’t mean anything,
L7-cue_385
and the dots are in a cubic array—then we can prove
L7-cue_386
that immediately is wrong; that doesn’t work.
L7-cue_387
#You see, the problem is not to make, to change, or to say something might be wrong,
L7-cue_388
but to replace it by something—and that is not so easy.
L7-cue_389
As soon as any real definite idea is substituted,
L7-cue_390
it becomes almost immediately apparent that it doesn’t work.
L7-cue_391
#Secondly, there’s an infinite number of possibilities of these simple types.
L7-cue_392
It’s something like this: you’re sitting working very hard, you’ve worked for a long time trying
L7-cue_393
to open a safe, and some Joe comes along who doesn’t know anything about what you’re doing,
L7-cue_394
or anything, except that you’re trying to open a safe; he says,
L7-cue_395
"Why don’t you try the combination 10-20-30?"
L7-cue_396
Because you’re busy: you tried a lot of things; maybe you already tried 10-20-30;
L7-cue_397
maybe you know that the middle number is already 32 and not 20; maybe you know that,
L7-cue_398
as a matter of fact, this is a five digit combination that we have.
L7-cue_399
#So these letters don’t do any good, and so please don’t send me any letters trying
L7-cue_400
to tell me how the thing is going to work.
L7-cue_401
I read them to make sure that I haven’t already thought of that, but it takes too long
L7-cue_402
to answer them because they’re usually in the class "Try 10- 20-30."
L7-cue_403
And as usual, nature’s imagination far surpasses our own.
L7-cue_404
#As we’ve seen from the other theories, they are really quite subtle and deep—and to get
L7-cue_405
such a subtle and deep guess is not so easy; one must be really clever to guess,
L7-cue_406
and it’s not possible to do it blindly by machine.
L7-cue_407
#So I want to discuss the art of guessing nature’s laws; it’s an art.
L7-cue_408
How is it done?
L7-cue_409
One way, you might think, "Well, look at history: how did the other guys do it?"
L7-cue_410
Or look at history, you first start out with Newton: he [was] in a situation
L7-cue_411
where he had incomplete knowledge, and he was able to get the laws by putting together ideas
L7-cue_412
which all were relatively close to experiment—there wasn’t a great distance
L7-cue_413
between the observations and the test.
L7-cue_414
#Now, that’s the first one, but now it doesn’t work so good.
L7-cue_415
Now, the next guy who did something—another man who did something great—was Maxwell,
L7-cue_416
who obtained the laws of electricity and magnetism.
L7-cue_417
But what he did was this, he put together all the laws of electricity due to Faraday
L7-cue_418
and other people that came before him, and he looked at them and he realized
L7-cue_419
that they were mutually inconsistent; they were mathematically inconsistent.
L7-cue_420
In order to straighten it out he had to add one term to an equation.
L7-cue_421
#By the way, he did this by inventing a model for himself
L7-cue_422
of idler wheels, and gears, and so on, in space.
L7-cue_423
Then he found what the new law was, and nobody paid much attention,
L7-cue_424
because they didn’t believe in the idler wheels.
L7-cue_425
We don’t believe in the idler wheels today, but the equations that he obtained were correct.
L7-cue_426
So the logic may be wrong, but the answer is all right.
L7-cue_427
#In the case of relativity, the discovery of relativity was completely different:
L7-cue_428
there was an accumulation of paradoxes; the known laws gave inconsistent results,
L7-cue_429
and it was a new kind of thinking, a thinking in terms
L7-cue_430
of discussing the possible symmetries of laws.
L7-cue_431
It was especially difficult because it was for the first time realized how long something
L7-cue_432
like Newton’s laws could be right—and still ultimately be wrong—and, second,
L7-cue_433
that ordinary ideas of time and space that seem so instinctive could be wrong.
L7-cue_434
#Quantum mechanics was discovered in two independent ways, which is a lesson.
L7-cue_435
There, again, and even more so, an enormous number
L7-cue_436
of paradoxes were discovered experimentally, things that absolutely couldn’t be explained
L7-cue_437
in any way by what was known—not that the knowledge was incomplete,
L7-cue_438
but the knowledge was too complete!: your prediction was, this should happen; it didn’t.
L7-cue_439
#The two different routes were: one, by Schrodinger, who guessed the equations; another,
L7-cue_440
by Heisenberg, who argued that you must analyze what’s measurable.
L7-cue_441
So two different philosophical methods reduced to the same discovery in the end.
L7-cue_442
#More recently, the discovery of the laws of this [weak decay] interaction,
L7-cue_443
which are still only partly known, add quite a somewhat different situation:
L7-cue_444
this time it was a case of incomplete knowledge, and only the equation was guessed.
L7-cue_445
The special difficulty this time was
L7-cue_446
that the experiments were all wrong—all the experiments were wrong.
L7-cue_447
#Now, how can you guess the right answer when, when you calculate the results it disagrees
L7-cue_448
with the experiment, and you have the courage to say the experiments must be wrong.
L7-cue_449
I’ll explain where the courage comes from in a minute.
L7-cue_450
#Now, today, we haven’t any paradoxes—maybe.
L7-cue_451
We have this infinity that comes if we put all the laws together,
L7-cue_452
but the rug—sweeping people are so—sweeping the dirt under the rug—are so clever
L7-cue_453
that one sometimes thinks that’s not a serious paradox.
L7-cue_454
The fact that there are all these particles doesn’t tell us anything except
L7-cue_455
that our knowledge is incomplete.
L7-cue_456
#Now, I’m sure that history does not repeat itself in physics, as you see from this list,
L7-cue_457
and the reason is this: any scheme—like, "Think of symmetry laws," or "Put the equations
L7-cue_458
in mathematical form," or any of these schemes "Guess equations," and so on—are known
L7-cue_459
to everybody now, and they’re tried all the time.
L7-cue_460
So if the place where you get stuck is not that—and you try that right away:
L7-cue_461
we try looking for symmetries; we try all the things that have been tried before,
L7-cue_462
but we’re stuck-so it must be another way next time.
L7-cue_463
#Each time that we get in this log jam of too many problems, it’s because the methods
L7-cue_464
that we’re using are just like the ones we used before.
L7-cue_465
We try all that right away, but the new discovery is going to be made
L7-cue_466
in a completely different way—so history doesn’t help us very much.
L7-cue_467
#I’d like to talk about—a little bit about this—Heisenberg’s idea that you shouldn’t talk
L7-cue_468
about what you can’t measure, because a lot of people talk about that
L7-cue_469
without understanding it very well.
L7-cue_470
They say in physics you shouldn’t talk about what you can’t measure.
L7-cue_471
If what you mean by this, if you interpret this in the sense that the constructs or inventions
L7-cue_472
that you make, that you talk about, must be of such a kind that the consequences
L7-cue_473
that you compute must be comparable to experiment—that is,
L7-cue_474
if you don’t compute a consequence like "A moo must be three goos,"
L7-cue_475
when nobody knows what a moo and a goo is (that’s no good);
L7-cue_476
if the consequences can be compared to experiment—then that’s all that’s necessary.
L7-cue_477
#It is not necessary that moos and goos can’t appear in the guess: that’s perfectly all right:
L7-cue_478
you can have as much junk in the guess as you want,
L7-cue_479
provided that you can compare it to experiment.
L7-cue_480
That’s not fully appreciated, because it’s usually said—people usually complain
L7-cue_481
of the unwarranted extension of the ideas of particles and paths
L7-cue_482
and so forth into the atomic realm.
L7-cue_483
#Not so at all—there’s nothing unwarranted about the extension.
L7-cue_484
We must, and we should, and we always do,
L7-cue_485
extend—as far as we can beyond what we already know—those things,
L7-cue_486
those ideas that we’ve already obtained; we extend the ideas beyond their range.
L7-cue_487
Dangerous, yes—uncertain, yes—but the only way to make progress.
L7-cue_488
It’s necessary; it makes science useful, although it’s uncertain.
L7-cue_489
It’s only useful if it makes predictions.
L7-cue_490
It’s only useful if it tells you about some experiment that hasn’t been done;
L7-cue_491
it’s no good if it just tells you what just went on.
L7-cue_492
So it’s necessary to extend the ideas beyond where they’ve been tested.
L7-cue_493
#For example, in the law of gravitation, which was developed to understand the motion
L7-cue_494
of planets, if Newton simply said, "I now understand the planets," and didn’t try
L7-cue_495
to compare it to the earth’s pull, and didn’t—we can’t—if we’re not allowed to say,
L7-cue_496
"Maybe what holds the galaxies together is gravitation; we must try that."
L7-cue_497
It’s no good to say, "Well, when you get to the size of galaxies,
L7-cue_498
since you don’t know anything about it, anything can happen."
L7-cue_499
Yes, I know.
L7-cue_500
#But there’s no science in it; there’s no understanding, ultimately, of the galaxies.
L7-cue_501
If, on the other hand, you assume that the entire behavior is due to only known laws,
L7-cue_502
this assumption is very limited, and very definite, and easily broken by experiment.
L7-cue_503
#What we’re looking for is just
L7-cue_504
such hypotheses—very definite, easy to compare to experiment.
L7-cue_505
#The fact is, that the way the galaxies behave so far doesn’t seem to be against the proposition.
L7-cue_506
It would be easily disproved if it were false, but it’s very useful to make the hypothesis.
L7-cue_507
#I’ll give another example even more interesting and important.
L7-cue_508
Probably the most powerful assumption in all of biology, the single assumption
L7-cue_509
that makes the progress of biology the greatest,
L7-cue_510
is the assumption that everything the animals do, the atoms can do—or,
L7-cue_511
that the things that are seen in the biological world are the results of the behavior
L7-cue_512
of physical and chemical phenomena with no extra something.
L7-cue_513
#You could always say, "When we come to living things, anything can happen."
L7-cue_514
If you do that you never understand a living thing.
L7-cue_515
#It’s very hard to believe that the wiggling of the tentacle of the octopus is nothing
L7-cue_516
but some fooling around of atoms according the known physical laws.
L7-cue_517
But if investigated with this hypothesis, one is able to make guesses quite accurately
L7-cue_518
as to how it works, and one makes great progress in understanding the thing.
L7-cue_519
So far, it hasn’t been—the tentacle hasn’t been cut off.
L7-cue_520
What I mean is, there hasn’t been found that this idea is wrong.
L7-cue_521
#It’s therefore not unscientific to take a guess, although many people
L7-cue_522
who are not in science think it is.
L7-cue_523
For instance, I had a conversation about flying saucers some years ago
L7-cue_524
with laymen-because I’m scientific, I know all about flying saucers.
L7-cue_525
I said I don’t think there are flying saucers.
L7-cue_526
My antagonist said, "Is it impossible that there are flying saucers?
L7-cue_527
Can you prove that it’s impossible?"
L7-cue_528
No, I can’t prove it’s impossible; it’s just very unlikely.
L7-cue_529
"That," they say, "[shows] you are very unscientific: if you can’t prove it impossible,
L7-cue_530
then how can you say that it’s unlikely?"
L7-cue_531
Well, that’s the way-that is scientific: it is scientific only to say what’s more likely
L7-cue_532
and less likely, and not to be proving all the time possible and impossible.
L7-cue_533
#To define what I mean, I finally said to him, "Listen: I mean that from my knowledge
L7-cue_534
of the world that I see around me, I think that it is much more likely that the reports
L7-cue_535
of flying saucers are the result of the known irrational characteristics
L7-cue_536
of terrestrial intelligence, rather than the unknown rational efforts
L7-cue_537
of extraterrestrial intelligence!"
L7-cue_538
It’s just more likely, that’s all—and it’s a good guess.
L7-cue_539
#We always try to guess the most likely explanation, keeping in the back
L7-cue_540
of the mind the fact that if it doesn’t work, then we must discuss the other possibilities.
L7-cue_541
#Now, how to guess at what to keep and what to throw away.
L7-cue_542
You see, we have all these nice principles, and known facts, and so on, but we’re in some kind
L7-cue_543
of trouble that we get the infinities, or we don’t get enough of a description;
L7-cue_544
we’re missing some parts, and sometimes that means that we have probably
L7-cue_545
to throw away some idea—at least in the past it’s always turned
L7-cue_546
out that some deeply held idea has to be thrown away, and the question is what to throw away,
L7-cue_547
and what to keep: if you throw it all away, it’s going a little far,
L7-cue_548
and you don’t got much to work with.
L7-cue_549
After all, the conservation of energy looks good, and it’s nice;
L7-cue_550
I don’t want to throw it away, and so on.
L7-cue_551
To guess what to keep and what to throw away takes considerable skill.
L7-cue_552
(Actually, it probably is merely a matter of luck,
L7-cue_553
but it looks like it takes considerable skill.)
L7-cue_554
#For instance, probability amplitudes are very strange, and the first thing you’d think is
L7-cue_555
that the strange new ideas are clearly cockeyed.
L7-cue_556
Yet, everything that could be deduced from the ideas of the existence
L7-cue_557
of quantum mechanical probability amplitudes—strange though they are—all the
L7-cue_558
things that depend on that work throughout all these strange particles, work 100 percent.
L7-cue_559
Everything that depends on that seems to work.
L7-cue_560
So I don’t believe that that idea is wrong; and that when we find out what the inner guts
L7-cue_561
of this stuff is, we’ll find that idea is wrong; I think that part’s right.
L7-cue_562
#I’m only guessing; I’m telling you how I guess.
L7-cue_563
For instance, that space is continuous is, I believe, wrong.
L7-cue_564
Because we get these infinities and other difficulties, they—and we have some questions
L7-cue_565
as to what determines the sizes of all these particles—I rather suspect that the simple ideas
L7-cue_566
of geometry extended down into infinitely small space is wrong.
L7-cue_567
I don’t believe that space—I mean, I’m making a hole; I’m only making a guess.
L7-cue_568
I’m not telling you what to substitute.
L7-cue_569
If I did, I would finish this lecture with a known law, of course.
L7-cue_570
#Some people have used the inconsistency of all the principles to say
L7-cue_571
that there’s only one possible consistent world, that if we put all the principles together
L7-cue_572
and calculate very exactly, we will not only be able to reuse the principles,
L7-cue_573
but discover that these are the only things that can exist, and have the thing consistent.
L7-cue_574
#That seems to me like a big order.
L7-cue_575
#I don’t believe-that sounds like wagging the tail by the dog.
L7-cue_576
That’s right.
L7-cue_577
[I mean] wagging the dog by the tail.
L7-cue_578
I believe that you have to be given that certain things exist, a few of them:
L7-cue_579
not all the 48 particles, or the 50—some—odd particles;
L7-cue_580
a few little principles-a few little things exist, like electron and something—something,
L7-cue_581
is given, and then with all the principles, the great complexities that come
L7-cue_582
out with probably a definite consequence—but I don’t think you can get the whole thing
L7-cue_583
from just arguments about consistency.
L7-cue_584
#Finally, we have another problem, which is the question
L7-cue_585
of the meaning of the partial symmetries.
L7-cue_586
I think I’d better leave that one go because of a shortage of time.
L7-cue_587
#Well, I’ll say it quickly.
L7-cue_588
These symmetries-like the neutron and proton, are nearly the same
L7-cue_589
but they’re not, for electricity.
L7-cue_590
or that the law of reflection symmetry is perfect except
L7-cue_591
for one kind of a reaction—are very annoying.
L7-cue_592
The thing is almost symmetrical, but not.
L7-cue_593
#Now, two schools of thought exist: one will say, "It’s really simple; they’re really symmetrical,
L7-cue_594
but there’s a little complication which knocks it a little bit cockeyed."
L7-cue_595
Then there’s another school of thought, which has only one representative—myself—which says,
L7-cue_596
"No, the thing may be complicated, and become simple only through the complications."
L7-cue_597
Like this: the Greeks believed that the orbits of the planets were circles.
L7-cue_598
The orbits of the planets are nearly circles; actually, they’re ellipses.
L7-cue_599
#The next question is, well, they’re not quite symmetrical, but they’re almost circles;
L7-cue_600
they’re very close to circles—why are they very close to circles?
L7-cue_601
Why are they nearly symmetrical?
L7-cue_602
Because of the long complicated effects of tidal friction, a very complicated idea.
L7-cue_603
So it is possible that nature in our heart is completely—is unsymmetrical for these things,
L7-cue_604
but in the complexities of reality it gets approximately looking
L7-cue_605
as if its symmetrical—the ellipses look almost like circles.
L7-cue_606
#That’s another possibility.
L7-cue_607
Nobody knows; it’s just guesswork.
L7-cue_608
#Now, another thing that people often say is, that for guessing, two identical theories,
L7-cue_609
two theories-suppose you have two theories, A and B,
L7-cue_610
which look completely different psychologically—they have different ideas
L7-cue_611
in them, and so on—but that all the consequences that are computed, all the consequences
L7-cue_612
that are computed are exactly the same.
L7-cue_613
([You] may even say they even agree with experiment.)
L7-cue_614
#The point is, though, that the two theories, although they sound different
L7-cue_615
at the beginning, have all consequences the same.
L7-cue_616
(It’s easy, usually, to prove that mathematically,
L7-cue_617
by doing a little mathematics ahead of time to show that the logic from this one
L7-cue_618
and this one will always give corresponding consequences.)
L7-cue_619
#Suppose we have two such theories: how are we going to decide which one is right?
L7-cue_620
No way-not by science, because they both agree with experiment to the same extent,
L7-cue_621
there’s no way to distinguish one from the other.
L7-cue_622
So two theories, although they may have deeply different ideas behind them,
L7-cue_623
may be mathematically identical.
L7-cue_624
#Usually people say, then, in science we should say, one doesn’t know how
L7-cue_625
to distinguish them, and that’s right.
L7-cue_626
#However, for psychological reasons, in order to guess new theories,
L7-cue_627
these two things are very far from equivalent.
L7-cue_628
Because one gives a man different ideas than the other.
L7-cue_629
By putting the theory in a certain kind of framework, you get an idea what
L7-cue_630
to change—which will be something—for instance, in theory A it talks about something;
L7-cue_631
then you say, I’ll change that idea in here.
L7-cue_632
#But to find out what the corresponding thing is you’re going to change in here,
L7-cue_633
may be very complicated—it may not be a simple idea.
L7-cue_634
In other words, a simple change here may be a very different theory
L7-cue_635
than a simple change there.
L7-cue_636
#In other words, although, they’re identical before they’re changed, there are certain ways
L7-cue_637
of changing one which look natural, which don’t look natural in the other.
L7-cue_638
Therefore, psychologically we must keep all the theories in our head.
L7-cue_639
Every theoretical physicist that’s any good knows six
L7-cue_640
or seven different theoretical representations for exactly the same physics,
L7-cue_641
and knows that they’re all equivalent, and that nobody is ever going to be able to decide
L7-cue_642
which one is right at that level, but he keeps them in his head,
L7-cue_643
hoping that they’ll give him different ideas for guessing.
L7-cue_644
#Incidentally, that reminds me of another thing: that is, that the philosophy,
L7-cue_645
or the ideas around the theory, a lot of ideas—you say, "I believe there is a spacetime"
L7-cue_646
or something like that in order to discuss your analysis—that these ideas change enormously
L7-cue_647
when there are very tiny changes in the theory.
L7-cue_648
In other words, for instance, Newton’s ideas about space
L7-cue_649
and time agreed with experiment very well.
L7-cue_650
#But in order to get the correct motion of the orbit of Mercury, which was a tiny,
L7-cue_651
tiny difference, the difference in the character of the theory
L7-cue_652
with which you started was enormous.
L7-cue_653
The reason is, these are so simple and so perfect, they produce definite results.
L7-cue_654
In order to get something that produces a little different result,
L7-cue_655
it has to be completely different—you can’t make imperfections on a perfect thing;
L7-cue_656
you have to have another perfect thing.
L7-cue_657
#The philosophical ideas between Newton’s theory of gravitation and Einstein’s theory
L7-cue_658
of gravitation are enormous—their differences, rather, are enormous.
L7-cue_659
#What are these philosophies?
L7-cue_660
#These philosophies are really tricky ways to compute consequences quickly:
L7-cue_661
a philosophy—which is sometimes called an understanding of the law—is simply a way
L7-cue_662
that a person holds the laws in his mind so as to guess quickly at consequences.
L7-cue_663
Some people have said, and it’s true for instance, in the case of Maxwell’s equations
L7-cue_664
and other equations, never mind the philosophy, never mind anything
L7-cue_665
of this kind, just guess the equations.
L7-cue_666
#The problem is only to compute the answer so they agree with experiment,
L7-cue_667
and it’s not necessary to have a philosophy, or words about the equation.
L7-cue_668
That’s true, in a sense, yes—and no: it’s good in the sense you may be,
L7-cue_669
if you only guess the equation, you’re not prejudicing yourself, and you’ll guess better.
L7-cue_670
On the other hand, maybe the philosophy maybe helped you to guess; it’s very hard to say.
L7-cue_671
#For those people who insist, however, that the only thing that’s important is
L7-cue_672
that the theory agrees with experiment, I would like to make an imaginary discussion
L7-cue_673
between a Mayan astronomer and his student.
L7-cue_674
The Maya were able to calculate, with great precision, the predictions, for example,
L7-cue_675
for eclipses and the position of the moon in the sky, and the position of Venus, and so on.
L7-cue_676
However, it was all done by arithmetic: you count to certain numbers,
L7-cue_677
you subtract some numbers, and so on—there was no discussion of what the moon was;
L7-cue_678
there wasn’t even a discussion of the idea that it went around.
L7-cue_679
There was only "Calculate the time when there would be an eclipse," or "the time
L7-cue_680
when it would rise [as a] full moon," and "when it would rise [as a] half moon,"
L7-cue_681
and so on-just calculating, only.
L7-cue_682
#Suppose that a young man went to the astronomer and said, "I have an idea:
L7-cue_683
maybe those things are going around, and there are balls of rocks, like rocks, out there,
L7-cue_684
we could calculate how they move in a completely different way,
L7-cue_685
and just calculate what time they appear in the sky," and so on.
L7-cue_686
#Of course, the Mayan astronomer would say, "Yes, how accurate can you predict eclipses?"
L7-cue_687
He says, "I haven’t developed the thing very far."
L7-cue_688
"But we can calculate eclipses more accurately than you can with your model,
L7-cue_689
and so you must not pay any attention to this, because the mathematical scheme is better."
L7-cue_690
#There’s a very strong tendency of people to say against some idea,
L7-cue_691
if someone comes up with an idea that says, "Let’s suppose the world is this way,"
L7-cue_692
and you say to him, "Well, what would you get for the answer for such—and—such a problem?"
L7-cue_693
He says, "I haven’t developed it far enough."
L7-cue_694
And you say, "Well, we have already developed it much further;
L7-cue_695
we can get the answers very accurately."
L7-cue_696
#So it is a problem as to whether or not to worry about philosophies behind ideas.
L7-cue_697
Another thing, of course, that one can use to guess, is to guess new principles.
L7-cue_698
For instance, in Einstein’s gravitation he guessed, on top of all the other principles,
L7-cue_699
the principle that corresponded to the idea
L7-cue_700
that the forces are always proportional to the masses.
L7-cue_701
He guessed the principle that if you are in an accelerating car,
L7-cue_702
you couldn’t tell that from being in a gravitational field—and by adding that principle
L7-cue_703
to all the other principles, [he] was able to deduce the correct laws of gravitation.
L7-cue_704
#Well, that outlines a number of possible ways of guessing.
L7-cue_705
#I would now like to come to some other points about the final result.
L7-cue_706
#First of all, when we’re all finished, and we have a mathematical theory
L7-cue_707
by which we can compute consequences, it really is an amazing thing.
L7-cue_708
#What do we do?
L7-cue_709
#In order to figure out what an atom’s gonna do in a given situation, we make up a whole lot
L7-cue_710
of rules, with marks on paper, carry them into a machine, which opens and closes switches
L7-cue_711
in some complicated way, and the result will tell us what the atom is going to do.
L7-cue_712
Now, if the way that these switches opens and close was some kind of a model
L7-cue_713
of the atom—in other words, if we thought the atom had such switches in it—then I would say,
L7-cue_714
"Well, I understand, more or less, what’s going on."
L7-cue_715
#But I find it quite amazing that it’s possible to predict what will happen
L7-cue_716
by what we call mathematics: we’re just simply following a whole lot of rules
L7-cue_717
which have nothing to do, really, with what’s going on in the original thing.
L7-cue_718
So, in other words, the closing and opening of switches in a computer is quite different,
L7-cue_719
I think, than what’s happening in nature, and that to me is very surprising.
L7-cue_720
#Now, finally, there is-I would like to say, one of the most important things
L7-cue_721
in this guess / compute consequences / compare experiment business,
L7-cue_722
is to know when you’re right.
L7-cue_723
#It is possible to know when you’re right way ahead of computing all the consequence—I mean,
L7-cue_724
of checking of all the consequences.
L7-cue_725
You can recognize truth by a beauty and simplicity.
L7-cue_726
It’s always easy, when you’ve got the right guess and make two or three little calculations
L7-cue_727
to make sure it isn’t obviously wrong, to know that it’s right.
L7-cue_728
When you get it right, it’s obvious that it’s right—at least if you have any experience.
L7-cue_729
Because what happens is, that more comes out than goes in: that your guess is,
L7-cue_730
in fact, that something is very simple.
L7-cue_731
#And at the moment you guess that it’s simpler than you thought,
L7-cue_732
then it turns out that it’s right, if it can’t be immediately disproved.
L7-cue_733
Doesn’t [it] sound silly: I mean, if you can’t see immediately that it’s wrong,
L7-cue_734
and it’s simpler than it was before, then it’s right.
L7-cue_735
#The inexperienced, and crackpots, and people like that, who make guesses that are simple,
L7-cue_736
all right, but you can immediately see that they’re wrong—that doesn’t count.
L7-cue_737
And others—the inexperienced students— make guesses that are very complicated,
L7-cue_738
and it sort of looks like it’s all right, but I know it’s not true,
L7-cue_739
because the truth always turns out to be simpler than you thought.
L7-cue_740
#What we need is imagination, but imagination in a terrible straightjacket.
L7-cue_741
We have to find a new view of the world that has to agree with everything that’s known,
L7-cue_742
but disagree in its predictions somewhere—otherwise it’s not interesting—and
L7-cue_743
in that disagreement, agree with nature.
L7-cue_744
#If you can find any other view of the world which agrees over the entire range
L7-cue_745
where things have already been observed, but disagrees somewhere else,
L7-cue_746
you’ve made a great discovery, even if it doesn’t agree with nature.
L7-cue_747
#It’s darn hard, it’s almost impossible—not quite impossible—to find another theory which agrees
L7-cue_748
with experiments over the entire range in which the old theories have been checked,
L7-cue_749
and yet gives a different consequences in some other range.
L7-cue_750
In other words, a new idea is extremely difficult—it takes a fantastic imagination.
L7-cue_751
#What of the future of this adventure?
L7-cue_752
What will happen, ultimately?
L7-cue_753
#We are going along, guessing the laws, how many laws are we going to have to guess?
L7-cue_754
I don’t know.
L7-cue_755
#Some of my—let’s say, some of my colleagues—say, well, science will go on.
L7-cue_756
But certainly there will not be perpetual novelty, say, for 1,000 years.
L7-cue_757
This thing can’t keep on going: we’re always going to discover new laws, new laws, new laws;
L7-cue_758
if we do, it’ll get boring that there are so many levels, one underneath the other.
L7-cue_759
So the only way that it seems to me that it can happen, that what can happen in the future, is,
L7-cue_760
first: either that everything becomes known, that all the laws become known—that would mean
L7-cue_761
that after you had enough laws you could compute consequences, and they would always agree
L7-cue_762
with experiment, which would be the end of the line—or it might happen
L7-cue_763
that the experiments get harder and harder to make, more and more expensive,
L7-cue_764
that you get 99.9% of the phenomena but there’s always some phenomenon
L7-cue_765
which has just been discovered that’s very hard to measure, which disagrees, and gets harder
L7-cue_766
and harder to measure—as you discover the explanation of that one,
L7-cue_767
there’s always another one, and it gets slower and slower,
L7-cue_768
and more and more uninteresting—that’s another way that it can end,
L7-cue_769
but I think it has to end in one way or another.
L7-cue_770
#I think that we are very lucky to live in an age in which we’re still making the discoveries.
L7-cue_771
It’s an age which will never come again.
L7-cue_772
It’s like the discoveries of America—you only discover it once.
L7-cue_773
It was an exciting day when there was investigations of America.
L7-cue_774
#But the age that we live in is the age in which are discovering the fundamental laws of nature,
L7-cue_775
and that day will never come again.
L7-cue_776
#I don’t mean we’re finished; I mean we’re right in the process of making such discoveries.
L7-cue_777
It’s very exciting, marvelous.
L7-cue_778
But this excitement will have to go.
L7-cue_779
#Of course, in the future, there will be other interests: there will be interests
L7-cue_780
of the connection of one level of phenomena to another—phenomena in biology,
L7-cue_781
and so on-all kinds of things; or, if you’re talking about explorations,
L7-cue_782
exploring planets, and other things.
L7-cue_783
But there will not still be the same thing
L7-cue_784
as we’re doing now-it will just be different interests.
L7-cue_785
Another thing that will happen is, that if all is known, ultimately,
L7-cue_786
if it turns out all is known, or it gets very dull, the vigorous philosophy,
L7-cue_787
and the careful attention to all these things
L7-cue_788
that I’ve been talking about, will gradually disappear.
L7-cue_789
#The philosophers, who were always on the outside making stupid remarks, will be able to close in,
L7-cue_790
because we can’t push them away by saying, "Well, if you were right,
L7-cue_791
you’d be able to guess all the rest of the laws."
L7-cue_792
Because when the [laws] are all there, the [philosophers] will have an explanation for it.
L7-cue_793
For instance, there are always explanations to why the world is three dimensional.
L7-cue_794
Well, there’s only one world, and it’s hard to tell if that explanation if right or not.
L7-cue_795
So if everything were known, there will be some explanation about why those are the right laws.
L7-cue_796
But that explanation will be in a frame that we can’t criticize by arguing that that type
L7-cue_797
of reasoning will not permit us to go further.
L7-cue_798
#So there will be a degeneration of ideas, just like the degeneration
L7-cue_799
that great explorers feel occurs when tourists begin moving in on the territory.
L7-cue_800
#Now, I must say that in this age, people are experiencing a delight, a tremendous delight,
L7-cue_801
the delight that you get when you guess how nature will work
L7-cue_802
in a new situation never seen before.
L7-cue_803
#From experiments and information in a certain range, you can guess what’s going to happen
L7-cue_804
in a region where no one has ever explored before.
L7-cue_805
#It’s a little different than regular exploration—that is, there’s enough clues
L7-cue_806
on the land discovered to guess what the land is going to look
L7-cue_807
like that hasn’t been discovered—and these guesses, incidentally,
L7-cue_808
are often very different than what you’ve already seen.
L7-cue_809
It takes a lot of thought.
L7-cue_810
#What is it about nature that lets this happen, that it’s possible to guess
L7-cue_811
from one part what the rest is going to do?
L7-cue_812
That’s an unscientific question—what is it about nature—I don’t know how to answer it.
L7-cue_813
I’m going to give, therefore, an unscientific answer:
L7-cue_814
#I think it is because nature has a simplicity, and therefore a great beauty.
L7-cue_815
#Thank you very much.